*** TREK14: Classic StarTrek 2014!

Your mission is to explore the galaxy and destroy the 30 Klingons before
star-date 2100.

The galaxy is a 8x8x3 grid of 192 quadrants, each of which is subdivided into
64x14 sectors, corresponding to the X and Y screen position.

Along with Klingons, there are also Federation bases where you can refuel, as
well as planets and stars.

* Long Range Scan

Press "L" for long range scan, either from the command menu or short range
scan.

The long range scan shows a 3x3x3 quadrant view of entities centred around your
current location. So, for example, if you're at (1,1,1) you will see quadrants
in the range (0-2, 0-2, 0-2). Quadrants outside the galaxy are displayed as
"VOID" and are inaccessible.

The long range scan shows a summary of content in each quadrant, For example:

    F1S1P2

Means, 1 `F'ederation vessel, 1 `S'tar and 2 `P'lanets. Other codes are K for
Klingons and B for bases.

* Warp Drive

Press "W" from the command menu or short range scan.

Warp drive can be used to move from one quadrant to another, it is quicker than
impulse engines but uses more energy. it takes the same time to cross any distance with warp, but the energy varies with distance.

When prompted for the location enter the three coordinates X, Y and Z. For
example, you start your mission in quadrant 7,7,2 - the bottom right corner of
the galaxy.

* Short Range Scan

Press "S" from the command menu.

The short range scan is the main display of the current quadrant and the view
for tactical combat.

Your ship can move on impulse engines left, right, up and down using the arrow
keys. You can access most of the commands from this screen by just pressing
their command letter.

* Klingons

Klingons cluster in bunches of 1 to 3. Their ships are smaller and have less
energy capacity than a starship. They have no photon torpedoes and rely wholly
on phasers for weapons. Klingons can manoever slightly better on impulse
engines and can move diagonally; they can close on a ship quite fast.

Klingons do not retreat but they do step back somewhat to recharge. This is
possible when a quadrant has a star. The Klingons can slowly recharge from the
star's energy, then later come in for another attack.

* Phasers

Press "P" from the command menu or from the short range scan.

Phasers are locked on to enemy targets automatically. You are prompted for the
amount of energy to deploy to phasers. The phasers will fire at all enemies
within the quadrant that are in line of sight (ie not behind another object),
each one consuming the given energy, providing it's available.

Be sure not to deplete too much energy during a phaser attack. It can leave
your ship unable to escape.

The damage potential of phasers decreases with distance according to an
exponential decay law, so that the power emitted may be as little as 10% across
the width of a quadrant.

Klingons will tend to close rapily for attack, fire at close range, then move
back somewhat, so as to inflict the most damage on their foe.

* Photon Torpedoes

Press "T" from the command menu or from the short range scan.

You can carry at most 3 photon torpedoes at any time. Torpedoes are very
powerful and will often destroy an enemy ship in a single hit. Unlike phasers,
the damage potential of torpedoes does not decrease with distance, so it's the
ideal weapon to pick of an enemy before it gets too close.

However, torpedoes do not aim themselves, you have to manually aim them by
setting their direction. The direction is entered as a bearing in degrees from
0-360, where 0 points directly ahead of your ship.

direction chart:


                         90
            135          |           45
              \          |          /
                \        |        /
                  \      |      /
                    \    |    /
                      \  |  /
                        \|/
    180 ---------------- o ---------------- 0
                        /|\
                      /  |  \
                    /    |    \
                  /      |      \
                /        |        \
              /          |          \
             225         |          315
                        270


Be careful when aiming photon torpedoes because, if you miss, you might destroy
another object - which can result in court martial!

* Bases

Press "D" to dock with an adjacent base.

There are 5 Federation bases in the galaxy where you can doc to refuel. Spent
photon torpedoes are also replenished. To dock, manoeuvre your ship adjacent to
the base and press "D".

Note that the base in quadrant 7,7,2 should NOT be docked at, unless you wish
to end your mission. This base is starfleet HQ, docking here voluntarily ends
the mission giving your score.

When stardate 2100 is reached, you will be recalled to HQ. you MUST return asap otherwise your score is affected. If you do not return, you will be relieved of command.


















